Now up to this point in the course we've talked about Python careers and we've talked about being a
back end developer using Python about testing and automation about being a general python developer
and doing scripting being a software engineer and just writing software using python.
But we haven't really touched on the subject of machine learning or research analyst data scientist
data analyst and you see all these fields kind of overlap.
So what is machine learning when we talk about machine learning.
You have to keep this diagram in mind.
You see it all starts with A.I. or artificial intelligence which simply means a human intelligence exhibited
by machines an A.I. is while a machine that acts like a human and currently in our industry we have
something called Narrow A.I. that is machines can be just as good or even better than humans at a specific
task.
For example detecting heart disease from images or at the game of Go or even video games.
But narrow A.I. that we have currently simply means those machines can only do one thing really well
they can't be like humans and have multiple abilities.
That's called General A.I. and it's something that we're very very far away from now.
Machine learning is a subset of A.I. and machine learning is an approach to try and achieve artificial
intelligence through systems that can find patterns in a set of data.
And actually Stanford University describes machine learning as the science of getting computers to act
without being explicitly programmed that is getting machines to do things without us specifically saying
do this then do that then do this and don't worry.
We'll explore that more throughout the section.
Now you may have also heard of deep learning and deep learning or deep neural networks is just one of
the techniques for implementing machine learning.
For now you can just think of it as a type of algorithm.
But then we have this thing of data science and often the role of a data science and a machine learning
expert are quite overlapping and most job descriptions actually don't even have a clear distinction
between what is a machine learning expert and a data science expert.
The field of data science simply means analyzing data looking at data and then doing something with
it usually some sort of a business goal.
So when we talk about machine learning there's a lot of overlap with data science.
So throughout the next couple of videos we're going to be talking about both of these topics because
both of them relate and overlap and he can't do one without the other because you need to be able to
understand data and work with data to do any of these things.
And that's why when we talk about careers often things like machine learning data scientist data analyst
or research analyst are similar because they all work with data and from that data they want to derive
some sort of an action for the business for the company or for the person.
All right that's enough for now.
Let's move on to the next video.